{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\froman Times-Roman;\f1\ftech\fcharset2 Symbol;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw16220\paperh14020
\pard

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Release 2.0  Copyright 
\f1 „
\f0 1990 by NeXT Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\li1100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 MKPartRecorder\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 INHERITS FROM	MKInstrument : NSObject\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	MusicKit.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 A MKPartRecorder is an MKInstrument that realizes MKNotes by adding copies of them to a MKPart.  A MKPartRecorder's MKPart is set through the 
\b setPart:
\b0  method.  If the MKPart already contains MKNotes, the old MKNotes aren't removed or otherwise affected by recording into the MKPart–the recorded MKNotes are merged in.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 Each MKPartRecorder contains a single MKNoteReceiver object.  During a performance, a MKPartPerformer receives MKNotes from its MKNoteReceiver, copies them, and then adds them to its MKPart object.  Each MKNote is given a new (but not necessarily different) timeTag; if the MKNote is a noteDur, it's also given a new duration.  The timeTag and duration are computed either as beats or as seconds, depending on the value of the 
\b timeUnit
\b0  instance variable.  If 
\b timeUnit
\b0  is set to MK_second, the default, the new values are in seconds from the beginning of the performance.  If it's set to MK_beat, they're computed as beats.  If it's set to MK_timeTag, the new values are derived from the timeTag value in the MKNote itself.  For example, when recording from Midi, you may want to use MK_timeTag.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 You can create MKPartRecorders yourself, or you can use a MKScoreRecorder object to create a group of them for you.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 See also:  MKScoreRecorder, MKPart\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE VARIABLES\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\ql\qnatural

\i\fs28 \cf0 Inherited from Object
\i0 	Class	isa;\

\fs16 \

\i\fs28 Inherited from Instrument
\i0 	id	noteReceivers;\

\fs16 \

\i\fs28 Declared in PartRecorder
\i0 	MKTimeUnit	timeUnit;\
\pard\tx10180\tx10680\li7660\fi-520\ql\qnatural
\cf0 id	noteReceiver;\
id	part;\
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \

\fs28 timeUnit 	The unit in which the object measures time.\

\fs16 \

\fs28 noteReceiver 	The object's single NoteReceiver.\

\fs16 \

\fs28 part 	The object's Part.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\

\fs28 METHOD TYPES\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 Creating and freeing a PartRecorder\
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 - 
\f0 copy \
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \

\fs28 Modifying the object	
\f1 - 
\f0 init\
\pard\tx10180\tx10680\li7660\fi-520\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 - 
\f0 setPart:\
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \

\fs28 Querying the object	
\f1 - 
\f0 part\

\fs16 \

\fs28 Realizing Notes	
\f1 - 
\f0 realizeNote:fromNoteReceiver:\

\fs16 \

\fs28 Accessing time	
\f1 - 
\f0 setTimeUnit: \
\pard\tx10180\tx10680\li7660\fi-520\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 - 
\f0 timeUnit\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 copy\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0\b copy\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 receiver.  Creates and returns a new PartRecorder as a copy of the receiver.  The new object has its own MKNoteReceiver object but adds MKNotes to the same MKPart as the receiver.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 init\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0\b init\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Initializes the receiver by creating and adding its single MKNoteReceiver.  You must invoke this method when creating a new object.  A subclass implementation should send 
\b [super init]
\b0  before performing its own initialization.  \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 part\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0\b part\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns the receiver's MKPart object.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 realizeNote:fromNoteReceiver:\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0\b realizeNote:
\i\b0 aNote 
\i0\b fromNoteReceiver:
\i\b0 aNoteReceiver\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\i0\fs28 \cf0 Copies 
\i aNote
\i0 , computes and sets the new MKNote's timeTag (and duration if it's a noteDur), and then adds the new MKNote to the receiver's MKPart.  
\i aNoteReceiver
\i0  is ignored.  Returns the receiver.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 setPart:\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0\b setPart:
\i\b0 aPart\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\i0\fs28 \cf0 Sets 
\i aPart
\i0  as the receiver's MKPart.  Returns the receiver.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 setTimeUnit:\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0\b setTimeUnit:
\b0 (MKTimeUnit)
\i aTimeUnit\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\i0\fs28 \cf0 Sets the receiver's 
\b timeUnit 
\b0 instance variable to 
\i aTimeUnit, 
\i0 one of MK_second, MK_beat or MK_timeTag.  The default is MK_second.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 timeUnit\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 - 
\f0 (MKTimeUnit)
\b timeUnit\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns the receiver's 
\b timeUnit
\b0 , either MK_second, MK_timeTag, or MK_beat.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\ql\qnatural

\fs16 \cf0 \
}
