{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11400
\paperh9040
\margl120
\margr120
{\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3780\tx4320\tx6480\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0{\NeXTHelpMarker0 \markername PerformancePanel;}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3780\tx4320\tx6480\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0 The Performance Panel
\b0 \
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker24 \markername PerformanceControl;}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3780\tx4320\tx6480\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0 Performance Control\

\b0 \
The performance panel controls the playback, stopping, pausing, and recording of a single score and/or any active algorithms using a set of tape-transport-like buttons.  Tempo can be adjusted at any time via a slider.  A MIDI Sytem Real Time "Start" command is sent to all NoteFilters and Instruments.\
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker349 \markername ScoreControl;}
¬}\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3780\tx4320\tx6480\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0 Score /MIDI File Control
\b0 \

\b \

\b0 The record and playback modes of each part of the score is also controlled by a matrix of buttons.  Only one score is active at a time.   The score may be created by reading in a Standard MIDI File or Music Kit Score file, or by recording MIDI input or algorithmic performances.\
\
Ensemble reads either a Standard MIDI File or Music Kit Score file into an internal Score object.\
When a Scorefile is read, any non-MIDI Music Kit parameters  it may contain are discarded.  This is because the orchestration of a score in Ensemble is entirely determined by the active documents.  Each document can orchestrate up to four parts, and may include synthesis instruments with their own parameter settings, MIDI output channels, and dynamic note processing, such as transposition or filtering.\
\
A virtual screen Clavier allows entry of notes with the mouse or keyboard, when a physical MIDI controller is not available or not needed.  It is available from the main menu.
}
