{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11380
\paperh7880
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3780\tx4320\tx6480\f0\b\i\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0 Release Notes for version 23.3\
\

\b0\i0 This version has undergone substantial internal revision.  Archived documents are now about 5% of their previous size, as Appkit user interface objects are no longer included.  This allows future user interface improvements and extensions to apply automatically to documents from earlier versions.   One side effect of the changes is that backward compatability with old documents is not 100% guaranteed, especially when it comes to MIDI controller and Music Kit parameter assignments, and time values (e.g., delay times in the Echo note filter).  All old documents should load, but may have to be tweaked to work exactly as they did before.  Assignment of MIDI controller numbers has been made more uniform and general, and now includes all Music Kit parameters as well.\
\
Ensemble now takes advantage of the new Music Kit feature of DSP serial port input and output, if you have one of a number of external A/D converters.  A new Resonator instrument can be used to process sounds through the DSP, and DSP sound output may be directed back out to an external box instead of the built-in DACs.
\b\i \
\

\b0\i0 A new Clavier supports General MIDI program change assignments.\
\
A new waveshaping synthesis instrument has been included.\
\
The Sampler instrument now supports CODEC format sound file playback, and can be made to sample from the built-in mic under MIDI control.
}
