{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f3\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw16220
\paperh13060
\margl120
\margr0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 4.0  Copyright 
\f1 ã
\f0 1993 by CCRMA, Stanford University.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\li1100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 In1aUG, In1bUG\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 INHERITS FROM	UnitGenerator\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	musickit/unitgenerators/unitgenerators.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc1\cf1 In1aUG and In1bUG provide single-channel access to the DSP's stereo input stream, which comes from the DSP serial port; the former reads its input signal from the left channel, and the latter reads from the right.  \
\
In order to use an In1aUG or In1bUG, you must first send the message 
\b setSerialSoundIn:YES 
\b0 to the Orchestra.  This must be done before the Orchestra is sent the 
\b open
\b0  message.  \
\
If you're building a SynthPatch subclass, you should note that every SynthPatch object should have its own signal-input UnitGenerator; in other words, you don't allocate just one such object and then share it amongst the various SynthPatches.  The input signal is sent to all the In1aUGs and In1bUGs.\
\
\

\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 MEMORY SPACES\

\fs16 \

\pard\b\fs28\li1100\fc1\cf1 In1
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 aUG
\i a\

\pard\i0\li1100\fc1\cf1 In1
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 bUG
\i a\

\b0 a	
\i0 output \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b \

\fs28 idleSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b idleSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 You never send this message.  It's invoked by sending the 
\b idle 
\b0 message to the object.   In1aUG (and In1bUG)  idles itself by patching its output to 
\i zero
\i0 . Thus, an idle In1aUG makes no sound.   Note that you must send 
\b setOutput:
\b0  and 
\b run 
\b0 again to use the UnitGenerator after sending 
\b idle
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
runSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b runSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 If scale has not been set, sets it to 1.0.  This method is invoked when you send the 
\b run 
\b0 message to the object.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 setOutput:\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setOutput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the output patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .  Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setScale:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setScale:
\b0\i (double)value\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the factor by which the output signal is scaled.  By default, the scaler is set to 1.0.  Effective values are between 0.0 and 1.0 (negative values are the same as their absolute values, but with a 180 degree phase shift).  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

}
