{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f3\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw16220
\paperh13060
\margl120
\margr0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 4.0  Copyright 
\f1 ã
\f0 1993 by CCRMA, Stanford University.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\li1100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 In1qpUG\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 INHERITS FROM	UnitGenerator\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	musickit/unitgenerators/unitgenerators.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc1\cf1 The In1qpUG may only be used on the hub (master DSP) of theAriel QuintProcessor, which is represented by an instance of the ArielQP object.   In1qpUG reads one channel of the sample stream coming from one of the QuintProcessor satellite DSPs. \
\
If you're building a SynthPatch subclass, you should note that every SynthPatch object should have its own signal-input UnitGenerator; in other words, you don't allocate just one such object and then share it amongst the various SynthPatches.  The input signal is sent to all the In1qpUGs for a given channel and satellite DSP setting.\
\
\

\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 MEMORY SPACES\

\fs16 \

\pard\b\fs28\li1100\fc1\cf1 In1
\fc0\cf0 qp
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG
\i a\

\b0 a	
\i0 output \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b \

\fs28 idleSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b idleSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 You never send this message.  It's invoked by sending the 
\b idle 
\b0 message to the object.   In1qpUG  idles itself by patching its output to 
\i zero
\i0 . Thus, an idle In1aUG makes no sound.   Note that you must send 
\b setOutput:
\b0  and 
\b run 
\b0 again to use the UnitGenerator after sending 
\b idle
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
runSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b runSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 If scale has not been set, sets it to 1.0.  If Satellite has not been set, it is set to 'A'.  This method is invoked when you send the 
\b run 
\b0 message to the object.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 setOutput:\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setOutput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the output patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .  Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28\fc1\cf1 setChannel:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b\fc1\cf1 setChannel:
\b0 (int)
\i aChan
\fc0\cf0 \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the input channel that this instance of In1qpUG reads.  Channel 0 is the first channel, channel 1 is the second channel.   For quadraphonic streams, 
\i aChan
\i0  may be larger.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc1\cf1 setSatellite:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b\fc1\cf1 setSatellite:
\b0 (char)
\i sat
\fc0\cf0 \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the DSP from which this instance of In1qpUG reads its input sample stream.  
\i sat 
\i0 is the DSP, one of 'A', 'B', 'C' or 'D'.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 setScale:\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setScale:
\b0 (double)
\i value\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the scale as specified.  The default is 1.0.  \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fc1\cf1 \

}
