{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f3\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw16220
\paperh14020
\margl120
\margr0
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 2.0  Copyright 
\f1 ã
\f0 1990 by NeXT Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\li1100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 OnepoleUG\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 INHERITS FROM	UnitGenerator\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	musickit/unitgenerators/unitgenerators.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 OnepoleUG is a one-pole filter that's implemented by subtracting the previous output sample (initialized as 0.0) from the current input sample:\
\

\i 	output
\i0   = (
\i b0 * input
\i0 ) 
\f1 - 
\f0 (
\i a1 * previousOutput
\i0 )\
	
\i previousOutput
\i0  = 
\i output\

\fs16 \

\i0\fs28 Note that the two samples have their own scalers:  \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\tx4620\fs28\fi-520\li3120\fc0\cf0 ·	
\i b0
\i0 , the filter's gain, scales the input sample.  Effective gain values are between 0.0 and 1.0 (a negative gain is the same as its absolute value, but with a 180 degree phase shift).\

\fs16 \

\fs28 ·	
\i a1
\i0 , the filter's coefficient
\i ,
\i0  scales the previous output sample.  If 
\i a1
\i0  is less than 0.0, the OnepoleUG is a low-pass filter; if it's greater than 0.0, the object is a high-pass filter.  For stability, the value of 
\i a1
\i0  should be between ±1.0 and 1.0 (non-inclusive).\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Similar to the OnepoleUG is the OnezeroUG; it, too, is either a low-pass or a high-pass filter, but the frequency roll-off is gentler than with a OnepoleUG.   You should also note that the high-pass/low-pass determination with regard to the sign of the coefficent is switched in the OnezeroUG.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 MEMORY SPACES\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 OnepoleUG
\i ab\

\b0 a	
\i0 output\

\i b	
\i0 input \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b \

\fs28 clear\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b clear\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Clears the filter by setting the delayed sample (the previous output sample) to 0.0.  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 idleSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b idleSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 You never send this message.  It's invoked by sending the 
\b idle 
\b0 message to the object.  \
Sets the output patchpoint to 
\i sink
\i0 ,
\i  
\i0 thus ensuring that the object does not produce any output.  Note that you must send 
\b setOutput:
\b0  and 
\b run 
\b0 again to use the UnitGenerator after sending 
\b idle
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 setA1:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setA1:
\b0\i (double)value\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the filter's coefficient.   If 
\i value
\i0  is less than 0.0, the OnepoleUG is a low-pass filter; if it's greater than 0.0, the object is a high-pass filter.  For stability, the 
\i value
\i0  should be between ±1.0 and 1.0.  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setB0:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setB0:
\b0\i (double)value\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the filter's gain.  Effective gain values are between 0.0 and 1.0 (a negative gain is the same as its absolute value, but with a 180 degree phase shift).  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setBrightness:forFreq:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setBrightness:
\b0 (double)
\i brightness
\b\i0  forFreq:
\b0 (double)
\i frequency\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 This is a convenient method that adjusts the filter's gain and coefficient such that a constant 
\i brightness
\i0  value produces the same number and relative amplitudes of a tone's harmonics regardless of the value of 
\i frequency
\i0 .  For example, in a musical phrase during which the brightness of the synthesized notes shouldn't be perceived to change, you would invoke this method once per note passing a constant 
\i brightness
\i0  value (the successive
\i  frequency
\i0  values would, of course, be determined by the pitches of the notes).  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setInput:\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setInput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the input patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .  Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setOutput:\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setOutput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the output patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .  Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

}
