{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f2\fmodern Courier;\f3\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw16220
\paperh11920
\margl120
\margr0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 2.0  Copyright 
\f1 „
\f0 1990 by NeXT Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
Out1nUG and Release 4.0 Updates Copyright 
\f1 „
\f0 1993 by Stanford University.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\li1100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 Out1aUG, Out1bUG, Out1nUG\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 INHERITS FROM	UnitGenerator\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	musickit/unitgenerators/unitgenerators.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Out1aUG, Out1bUG and Out1nUG provide single-channel access to the DSP's stereo output stream.   Out1aUG writes its input signal to the left channel, Out1bUG writes to the right channel and Out1nUG allows the channel to be set with a method.  To write a stereo signal, it may be more convenient to use a single Out2sumUG object rather than one of each of these.    \
\
Where the samples that are written to the DSP output stream are ultimately sent–whether to sound-out, to the DSP serial port, or to a soundfile–depends on the state of the Orchestra from which the Out1aUG, Out1bUG or Out1nUG object was allocated.  By default, the Orchestra sends the samples to sound-out.\

\fs16 \

\fs28 If you're building a SynthPatch subclass, you should note that every SynthPatch object should have its own signal-output UnitGenerator; in other words, you don't allocate just one such object and then share it amongst the various SynthPatches.  The output signals produced by all the running Out1aUG's, Out1bUG's, Out1nUG's and Out2sumUG's are mixed (added) together into the DSP's output stream.\

\fs16 \

\fs28 Out1nUG additionally makes possible quadraphonic (or other multi-channel) output, with the proper external serial port device.   Additionally, the orchestra must be set up as follows:\
\
	
\f2\fs24 [anOrch setSerialSoundOut:YES];\
	[anOrch setSerialPortDevice:[[
\i QuadSerialPortDevice
\i0  alloc] init]];\
	
\fc1\cf1 [anOrch open];\

\fc0\cf0 \

\f0\fs28 where  
\i QuadSerialPortDevice 
\i0 is a custom subclass of 
\b DSPSerialPortDevice
\b0  that overrides the 
\b -outputChannelCount 
\b0 method to return 4 and overrides the 
\b -setUpSerialPort: 
\b0 method to send the correct settings for the particular device.\
\

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 MEMORY SPACES\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Out1aUG
\i a\

\i0 Out1bUG
\i a\

\i0 Out1nUG
\i a\

\b0 a	
\i0 input \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b \

\fs28 idleSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b idleSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 You never send this message.  It's invoked by sending the 
\b idle 
\b0 message to the object.   Since Out1aUG (and Out1bUG and Out1nUG) has no output patchpoints, it idles itself by patching its input to 
\i zero
\i0 . Thus, an idle Out1aUG makes no sound.   Note that you must send 
\b setInput:
\b0  and 
\b run 
\b0 again to use the UnitGenerator after sending 
\b idle
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
runSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b runSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 If scale has not been set, sets it to 1.0.  This method is invoked when you send the 
\b run 
\b0 message to the object.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 setInput:\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setInput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the input patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .  Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setScale:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setScale:
\b0\i (double)value\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the factor by which the input signal is scaled.  By default, the scaler is set to 1.0.  Effective values are between 0.0 and 1.0 (negative values are the same as their absolute values, but with a 180 degree phase shift).  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\b0\fc1\cf1 THE FOLLOWING METHOD IS ONLY SUPPORTED BY Out1nUG:\

\b\fc0\cf0 \
setChannel:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setChannel:
\b0\i (int)chan\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the channel to which the Out1nUG sends its output.   
\i chan 
\i0 is 0-based.   For example, in a square quadraphonic configuration, the channels would be as follows:\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx7220\li2620\fc0\cf0 	
\i\ul chan
\i0\ulnone 	
\i\ul position
\i0\ulnone \
	0		left front\
	1		right front\
	2		right rear (or left rear, if using "Z" convention)\
	3		left rear (or right rear, if using "Z" convention)\
\
You should never set 
\i chan 
\i0 greater than or equal to the number of output channels.  
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

}
