{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f3\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw16220
\paperh12580
\margl120
\margr0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 4.0  Copyright 
\f1 „
\f0 1993 by Eric Graves & CCRMA, Stanford University.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\li1100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 TablookiUG\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 INHERITS FROM	UnitGenerator\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	musickit/unitgenerators/unitgenerators.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 T
\pard\li1100\fc1\cf1 ablooki
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG does interpolated table-lookup.   It takes its input, which is assumed to be between -1 and 1, scales it so that -1.0 maps onto the start of the table and 1.0 maps onto the end of the table, then does a lookup and returns the corresponding table value.  If the computed address is not an integer, T
\pard\li1100\fc1\cf1 ablooki
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG does linear interpolation between table values–thus, it gives a high-quality mapping. \
\
To use it in a Waveshaping context, simply use an oscillator as the input to the T
\pard\li1100\fc1\cf1 ablooki
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG and set the T
\pard\li1100\fc1\cf1 ablooki
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG's table to the appropriate distortion table.  For an example, see the Waveshape SynthPatch in the Music Kit's SynthPatch library.\
\

\i Note that the table size should be odd.  
\i0 This gives a symetrical table.  For example, if the table size is 101, the point at 50 represents 0, there are 50 points corresponding to negative input (0-49, inclusive) and 50 points  corresponding to positive input (51-100, inclusive). 
\i \

\i0 \
T
\pard\li1100\fc1\cf1 ablooki
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG was written by Eric J. Graves at Princeton University, as a part of Princeton's Music 324(Computer Music) course (during April-May 1992, taught by David Jaffe).   David Jaffe revised it in Sept. 93.  \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 MEMORY SPACES\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 T
\pard\li1100\fc1\cf1 ablooki
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\fc0\cf0 UG
\i abc\

\b0 a	
\i0 output\

\i b	
\i0 input\

\i c	
\i0 lookup table memory\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b \

\fs28 idleSelf\

\pard\f1\b0\li2620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b idleSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 You never send this message.  It's invoked by sending the 
\b idle 
\b0 message to the object.  \
Sets the output patchpoint, as well as the delay memory, to 
\i sink
\i0 ,
\i  
\i0 thus ensuring that the object does not produce any output.  Note that you must send 
\b setOutput:
\b0  and 
\b run 
\b0 again to use the UnitGenerator after sending 
\b idle
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 setLookupTable:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setLookupTable:
\b0\i aSynthData\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the SynthData object used as the lookup table to 
\i aSynthData
\i0 .   The table size must be odd.   If 
\i aSynthData 
\i0 has an even length, the top-most point is not used.  Returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setInput:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setInput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the input patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .  Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 setOutput:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b setOutput:
\b0\i aPatchpoint\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Sets the output patchpoint to 
\i aPatchpoint
\i0 .   Returns 
\b nil
\b0  if the argument isn't a patchpoint; otherwise returns 
\b self
\b0 .\

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

}
