{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw10780\paperh8480
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Release Notes for the MacOsX Server MIDI Driver\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\b0 \cf0 \
This document describes the Macintosh Os X Server serial port MIDI driver.\
\
The MusicKit MIDI driver was originally written by David Jaffe for the NeXT Zilog SCC Z85C30 hardware. He then ported the driver to Intel platform Roland MPU-401 hardware. The driver was then reorganised and ported to Rhapsody/MacOS X Server by Leigh Smith <leigh@cs.uwa.edu.au>, now <leigh@tomandandy.com>. Both the SCC and MPU-401 versions have been tested, the latter only on Rhapsody DR2/Intel. \
\
A port of the MusicKit itself to OpenStep (and therefore MacOs X Server) is underway. Interested persons are invited to join the MusicKit mailing list <mkdist@ccrma.stanford.edu>.\
\
The package ZilogSCCMIDI.b.tar.gz are the binary executables compiled for PPC only.\
The package ZilogSCCMIDI.s.tar.gz are the source libraries. Please note to recompile the driver requires using header files copied from a 3.3 machine. The headers needed are:\
\
DriverKitHeaders/kernserv_3.3/printf.h\
DriverKitHeaders/kernserv_3.3/ns_timer.h\
DriverKitHeaders/machkit_3.3/NXLock.h\
DriverKitHeaders/mach/time_stamp.h\
DriverKitHeaders/mach/ppc/time_stamp.h\
DriverKitHeaders/mach/machine/time_stamp.h\
DriverKitHeaders/mach/i386/time_stamp.h\
DriverKitHeaders/architecture/ARCH_INCLUDE.h\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 INSTALLATION
\b0 \
\
Compile the 
\i ZilogSCCMIDI
\i0  project using ProjectBuilder or make. \
Use the install script 
\f1 loadZilogSCCMIDIDriver
\f0   to manually load and test the driver after booting. As root type 
\f1 ./loadZilogSCCMIDI
\f0 . If all goes well, you should see the last couple of lines of 
\f1 /var/log/system.log
\f0  informing loading Mididriver0, it's interrupt # and base address, then a dump of the kl_util program. There will be a 5 second sleep to let the system.log file drain.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 loadZilogSCCMIDI
\f0  will put the 
\f1 ZilogSCCMIDI.config
\f0  file package into 
\f1 /usr/Devices
\f0 . Alternatively the config file can be copied there by hand.\
\
Once tested, to have the driver automatically load at boot insert the following lines in 
\f1 /etc/startup/0700_Devices
\f0  (you will need to be root to edit the file):\
\
    #driverLoader D=PPCSerialPort\
    driverLoader D=PortServer   # Must be after all SerialDevices\

\i     driverLoader D=ZilogSCCMIDI\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\i0 \cf0     ;;\
\
Note you will need to comment out the PPCSerialPort driver to allow the MIDI driver to load.\
Note you must remove any backups of 
\f1 0700_Devices
\f0  in 
\f1 /etc/startup
\f0  as the boot script runs all scripts in that directory.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\b \cf0 CAVEATS
\b0 \
\
The MIDI driver is functional for playback, but  there is currently a problem simultaneously sending and receiving MIDI data. I'm pretty sure that is due to the status of reception not being properly checked. To do so requires checking the B channel register which requires getting the address from OpenFirmware and that seems to cause two instances of the driver to be loaded. The symptoms are it tends to cause user level playback to hang, but the kernel is fine. MIDI reception can be disabled with a #if to avoid the problems.\
\
It's not currently possible to run one serial port with a printer/modem and the other with a MIDI interface as the same Z85C30 manages both ports and its channels are not completely separate. Nor does it seem possible to have both the PPCSerialPort and MIDI driver coexist accessing the same memory map. This is left as an exercise for the reader :-)\
\
At this time, I've assumed the MIDI interface is attached to the modem port only on PPC machines. I'll put off a more general solution (allowing either modem or printer ports) until the customer release of MacOs X as I'd like to know more of the convention for communicating between driver instances. \
\
I suspect I might not have the timing quite accurate, it might be worthwhile to check if your sequences play back faster than intended.\
\

\b TESTING
\b0 \
\
A simple method of testing the operation of the driver is the command line programs\
 
\i recordmidifile
\i0  and 
\i playmidifile
\i0  from the MusicKit. These need header files from the MusicKit to compile. \
\
The command\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 recordmidifile  -v -f filename.midi\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\i0 \cf0 \
will save a SMF0 file and\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\i \cf0 playmidifile -f filename.midi\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\i0 \cf0 \
will play it. There are some standard .midi files originally by Dana Massie accompanying the source that should exercise the driver relatively well.\
\
--\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 Leigh Smith                    leigh@tomandandy.com (MIME)\
tomandandy                     +1-212-334-0421 (W) +1-212-334-0422 (F)\
                               89 Greene St. New York, NY 10012, USA\
                               http://www.cs.uwa.edu.au/~leigh\
Microsoft - What do you want to re-install today?\
}
