{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11760
\paperh7800
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\qc\fs24\fc0\cf0 Filtering\

\b0\ql \
Filtering is a very basic operation in sound processing.  Our vocal track is a filter, a concert room is a filter, almost everything is a filter (!).  Filtering consists in changing the amount of energy in various parts of the spectrum.  A high pass filter amplifies the high frequency components, and dampens the low frequency components.  A filter can be characterized by its
\i  frequency response
\i0 . The frequency response of a filter is the curve displaying the factor by which each harmonic's amplitude is multiplied.  For example, a high pass filter's frequency response is close to zero in the low frequencies and near one in the high frequencies. \
\
To see how filtering works, select the square waveform.  Then using the lower left display box (operation window) draw the frequency response of your filter.  For example, draw a big bump in the left part of the display (low frequencies) going down to zero for the rest of the frequency domain.  Click filter to apply the filter to the original waveform.  The sound should soften since most of the high frequencies have been suppressed by the filtering.  At the same time, the waveform has a much smoother shape. Filtering again will soften the sound even more and smooth the curve further.\
\
Filtering is equivalent to multiplying the sound's spectrum and the filter's frequency response. It is also equivalent to 
\i convolving
\i0  the waveform (time domain) with the 
\i impulse response
\i0  of the filter.
}
