{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f3\fswiss Helvetica;\f2\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11440
\paperh10160
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\qc\fs24\fc0\cf0 Overview\

\ql \

{{\NeXTHelpMarker10 \markername WaveEdit;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 WaveEdit
\b0  is a Music Kit application that makes it possible to display, edit and listen to wave tables. A simple interpolated oscillator is implemented on the DSP56001, whose waveform is displayed in the Waveform Display box. \
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker238 \markername Waveform Display;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Waveform Display:\

\b0 You can select classical waveforms and modify them using the mouse. The oscillator's wave table is refreshed each time you modify the waveform.  Use 
\i zoom-in
\i0  and 
\i zoom-out
\i0  commands to edit and modify smaller parts of the waveform.\
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker487 \markername FFT Display;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 FFT Display:\

\b0 The FFT (amplitude and phase) of the waveform is displayed in the FFT display box.  You can also edit the FFT.  The corresponding waveform is then calculated and transmitted to the oscillator.  Use the 
\i display
\i0  button to select linear or dB scale (60 dB scale.)  Use 
\i zoom-in 
\i0 and 
\i zoom-out 
\i0 commands to edit and modify smaller parts of the waveform's spectrum. \
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker860 \markername Operation Box;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Operation Box:\

\b0 The following operations are supported:
\i \
\
Filtering
\i0 : Edit the filter's frequency response in the operation window and click 
\i filter
\i0 . The waveform is filtered and sent to the oscillator.\

\i \
Windowing
\i0 : Edit half of the weighting window in the operation window and click 
\i multiply
\i0 . The waveform is multiplied and sent to the oscillator.   Windowing can leave the waveform un-normalized (it is normalized after all other operations.)  To normalize it, use the 
\i Normalize
\i0  button.\
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker1346 \markername Memory;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Memory:\

\b0 You can save and restore waveforms using the 
\i save
\i0  and 
\i restore
\i0  buttons. 
\i Undo
\i0  merely undoes the last operation.\
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker1466 \markername Saving as a Music Kit WaveTable;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Saving as a Music Kit WaveTable:\

\b0 To save the current waveform as a Music Kit WaveTable, just select 
\i Copy
\i0  from the Edit menu (or click the 
\i Copy to Pasteboard
\i0  button) and the WaveTable is copied to the pasteboard.  Then go into Edit, open a Music Kit scorefile and select 
\i Paste
\i0 .  The Music Kit representation of your WaveTable appears!    Similarly, you can copy a WaveTable from a scorefile and paste it into 
\b WaveEdit
\b0 .  \
\
Note that when a waveform is copied, only the harmonics that have non-zero amplitude are included.  When a waveform is pasted, harmonics that do not appear are given a phase of 0.\
\
You can also save the waveTable as a Music Kit scorefile containing a single waveTable definition.  To do this, select the 
\i Document->Save
\i0  or 
\i Document->SaveAs
\i0  menu item.  The 
\i Save
\i0  panel allows you to specify the name of the file and the name of the waveTable.\
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker2329 \markername Synthesis;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Synthesis:\

\b0 The 
\i SOUND 
\i0 button turns on or off the sound.  The 
\i Pitch
\b\i0  
\b0 and 
\i Vol
\b\i0  
\b0 sliders adjust the pitch and volume of the sound (obviously).  Choose the "More Controls" button to adjust periodic and random vibrato components.
\b \
\

{{\NeXTHelpMarker2552 \markername vib;}
¬}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f3\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Adding Vibrato:\

\b0 You can control the amount of random and periodic vibrato, as well as the frequency of the periodic component.  You can also turn vibrato on or off.
\b \
\

}
