{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw9840
\paperh8400
\margl120
\margr120
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc1\cf1 The Music Kit is an object-oriented software system for building music, sound, signal processing, and MIDI applications under NEXTSTEP.  It has been used in such diverse commercial applications as music sequencers, computer games, and document processors.  Professors and students in academia have used the Music Kit in a host of areas, including music performance, scientific experiments, computer-aided instruction, and physical modeling.  The Music Kit is the first to unify the MIDI and Music V paradigms, thus combining interaction with generality.  (Music V, written by Max Mathews and others at Bell Labs three decades ago, was the first widely available "computer music compiler".)\
\
The Music Kit currently runs on NeXT hardware and Intel-based hardware.\
\
The NeXT Music Kit was first demonstrated at the 1988 NeXT product introduction and was bundled in NeXT software releases 1.0 and 2.0.  Beginning with NeXT's 3.0 release, the Music Kit is no longer part of the standard NeXT software release.  Instead, it is being distributed and supported by the Center for Computer  Research in Music and Acoustics (CCRMA) of Stanford University.\
\
The CCRMA Music Kit and DSP Tools Distribution (or "CCRMA Music Kit" for short) is a comprehensive package that includes on-line documentation, programming examples, utilities, applications and sample score documents.  \
\
Source code is available for everything, with the exception of the NeXT hardware implementation of the low-level sound and DSP drivers.  This means researchers and developers may study the source or even customize the Music Kit and DSP Tools to suit their needs.  Enhancements can be sent to musickit@ccrma.stanford.edu to have them considered for future CCRMA releases. Commercial NeXT software developers may freely incorporate and adapt the software to accelerate development of NeXTSTEP software products.  (Free commercial use of files copyrighted by NeXT Inc. are understandably restricted to NeXTSTEP platforms.)\
\
See the Release Notes for further details.
\b\fs36 \
\

\b0\fs24 The Music Kit was designed by David A. Jaffe and Julius O. Smith, with input from James A. Moorer and Roger Dannenberg.  The Objective-C portion of the Music Kit was written by David A. Jaffe, while the DSP portion was written by Julius O. Smith.  The Ensemble application and much of the SynthPatch library were written by Michael Mcnabb.   Douglas Fulton had primary responsibility  for the documentation.  Others who contributed to the project included Dana Massie, Lee Boynton, Greg Kellogg, Douglas Keislar, Michael Minnick, Perry Cook, John Strawn and Rob Poor. \
\

\b\fs36 \

}
