{\rtf0\nextcset {\fonttbl{\f20\froman Times-Roman;}{\f3\fswiss 
Helvetica;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840 \margl1440\margr1440\margt0\margb0 
\pgnstart1\ftnstart1 \deftab31680 \sectd\sbknone \linemod0\linex0 
\ftnbj \headery0\footery0 \cols1 {\header \pard \li360\ri360\fi0\sl320 
\tx1080 \tx1800 \tx2520 \tx3240 \tx3960 \tx4680 \tx5400 
\tx6120 \tx6840 \tx7560 \tx8280 \plain \f20 \par 
\par 
}{\footerl \pard \li0\ri0\fi0\sl360 \tx0 \tqr\tx9360 \plain 
\f20\fs18\i \par 
\par 
Reading-\chpgn       \tab PRELIMINARY\par 
\par 
\par 
}\pard \li1440\ri0\fi0\sl260 \tx0 \tx2520 \tx2880 \tx3240 
\plain \f20\fs40 Suggested Reading\fs22 \fs40 \par 
\pard \keep \li1440\ri0\fi0\sl-260 \tx1800 \tx2160 \tx2520 
\fs22 \par 
\par 
Some information you may need or find useful is not 
covered in detail in this manual.  This section indicates 
where you can get additional information, whether in 
printed form or on-line.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard \keep \li0\ri0\fi0\sl260 \tx2520 \tx2880 \tx3240 
\fs32\b Signal and Array Processing\fs22\b0 \fs32\b \par 
\pard \keep \li1440\ri0\fi0\sl-260 \tx1800 \tx2160 \tx2520 
\fs22\b0 \par 
\i Theory and Application of Digital Signal Processing\i0 
.  Lawrence R. Rabiner and Bernard Gold.  Prentice-Hall, 
1975.\par 
\par 
\i Signal Theory\i0 .  L. E. Franks.  Prentice-Hall, 
1969.\par 
\par 
\i Matrix Computations\i0 .  Gene H. Golub and Charles 
F. Van Loan.  John Hopkins University Press, 1983.\par 
\par 
\i Introduction to Matrix Computations\i0 .  G. W. Stewart. 
 Academic Press, 1973.\par 
\par 
\i The Fourier Transform and Its Applications\i0 .  
Ronald N. Bracewell.  McGraw-Hill, 1978.\par 
\par 
\fs32\b \pard \keep \li0\ri0\fi0\sl260 \tx2520 \tx2880 
\tx3240 Sound\fs22\b0 \fs32\b \par 
\pard \keep \li1440\ri0\fi0\sl-260 \tx1800 \tx2160 \tx2520 
\fs22\b0 \par 
\i The Acoustical Foundations of Music.  \i0 Second 
edition.  John Backus.  Norton, 1977.\par 
\par 
\'aaDigitization of Audio:  A Comprehensive Examination 
of Theory, Implementation and Current Practice.\'ba  B. 
A. Blesser.  \i Journal of the Audio Engineering Society\i0 
, Vol. 26, No. 10, 1978, pp. 739-771.\par 
\par 
\fs32\b \pard \keep \li0\ri0\fi0\sl260 \tx2520 \tx2880 
\tx3240 Music\fs22\b0 \fs32\b \par 
\pard \keep \li1440\ri0\fi0\sl-260 \tx1800 \tx2160 \tx2520 
\fs22\b0 \par 
\i Computer Music\i0 .  Charles Dodge and Thomas A. 
Jerse.  Schirmer Books, 1985.\par 
\par 
\i Musical Applications of Microprocessors\i0 .  Hal 
Chamberlain.  Hayden, 1980.\par 
\par 
\i Electronic Music Synthesis\i0 .  Hubert S. Howe, 
Jr.  Norton, 1975.\par 
\par 
\'aaThe Simulation of Natural Instrument Tones using Frequency 
Modulation with a Complex Modulating Wave.\'ba  Bill 
Schottstaedt.  \i Computer Music Journal\i0 , Vol.  
1, No. 4, 1977, pp. 46-50.\par 
\par 
\'aaDigital Waveshaping Synthesis.\'ba  Marc Le Brun. 
 \i Journal of the Audio Engineering Society\i0 , Vol. 
18, No. 2, 1979, pp. 250-266.\par 
\par 
}
