{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f2\ftech Symbol;\f1\fmodern Ohlfs;}
\paperw13680
\paperh12620
\margl460
\margr580
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 Copyright 
\f2 ã
\f0 1992 by NeXT Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
\pard\tx0\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\fs48\li1440\fc0\cf0 \
\
\

\i \

\i0 3.0 Release Notes:\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1440\fc0\cf0 DSP\

\pard\tx0\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\i\fs32\li1440\fc0\cf0 These are the release notes included with NeXTstep 3.0.   See DSP.rtf for the current release notes.\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\i0\fs28\li1440\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fc1\cf1 \
Several bugs have been fixed in the DSP driver, but otherwise it has not\
changed since Release 2.1.\
\
All DSP development tools, with the exception of the assembler, linker, and\
librarian have been unbundled from Release 3.0.  Similarly, all\
music-related development tools have been unbundled with the exception of\
basic MIDI support.  Utilities to be available from CCRMA\
include:\
\
	Bug56 (binary only)\
	dspwrap, dsploadwrap, dspimg and other DSP command-line utilities\
	DSP source code and monitors formerly in /usr/lib/dsp\
	Header files formerly in /usr/include/dsp and /usr/include/musickit\
        The Music Kit library (libmusic) sources\
        The DSP library (libdsp) sources\
        The array processing library (libarray_proc) sources\
        The Music Kit programming examples\
        The DSP programming examples\
        Scorefiles and music-related command-line program sources\
        Music Kit and DSP documentation ("Concepts", "Reference", "man pages").\
        Music Kit demo sources (ScorePlayer, Ensemble)\
        Additions from CCRMA and elsewhere\
\
For those without convenient ftp access, the Bay Area NeXT User's Group (BANG) has added the CCRMA release to its CD ROM of shareware.\
\
The NeXT 3.0 release includes the shared libraries libdsp_s and libmusic_s for binary compatibility with 2.0/1 apps.  However, apps using the Music Kit or DSP library cannot be recompiled without first installing the CCRMA release (since all the header files and the linking libraries are gone).\
\
The command-line utilities playscore and convertscore are included in the NeXT release to support basic score playback and format conversion.\
\
Again, for binary compatibility the array processing DSP code run-time library is still installed in /usr/lib/dsp/apbin/.  The array processing C-function library (which is not a shared library) is not installed.\
\
\

\pard\tx0\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\b\li720\fc1\cf1 Miscellaneous notes\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\b0\li1440\fc1\cf1 \
The new Turbo hardware (33 MHz '040) has a revised DMA chip which fixes\
24-bit unpacked DMA mode to or from the DSP.\
\
\

\pard\tx0\tx2520\tx2880\tx3240\b\li720\fc1\cf1 Known Problems\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\b0\li1440\fc1\cf1 \

\pard\tx0\tx1800\tx2160\tx2540\tx2880\tx7920\b\fi-360\li1800\fc1\cf1 ·	
\b0 It is possible for a score playback to hang.  There is only one known cause of this which is when programmed-write data is fed so fast to the DSP that the DSP cannot keep up and TXDE is off for too long, forcing the DSP driver to "push" the write and resume it later.  When this happens, an error in the DMA protocol between the host CPU and DSP soon develops.  The only workaround at present is to spread out synthesis parameter updates over a longer time so that the DSP is not overwhelmed.  This problem occurs on 68040 systems and not 68030 systems.  It should be less likely to strike in release 3.0 than in release 2.1 because the timeout before a "push" was increased.  A true fix is expected for the final 3.0 release.\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1440\fc1\cf1 \
\

}
