{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11760
\paperh7800
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\qc\fs24\fc0\cf0 Human Voice\

\b0\ql \
Our vocal apparatus, like many instruments, can be decomposed into two components: the vocal cords and the vocal tract.  The vocal cords create a excitation sound which is then filtered by the vocal tract. The excitation sound itself is a very broad band signal which contains the whole range of frequencies. Although it is difficult to hear, since we can't reach down into someone's body and listen, we can create its effect by the following experiment:  Zero the waveform and just draw a sharp impulse at some point in the waveform display. The resulting sound is very bright, not to say harsh!  The vocal tract then 
\i filters
\i0  it.  This causes sinusoidal components to be removed or attenuated and creates what we recognize as vowels. What differentiates vowels from one another is the location of the energy in the spectrum, or in other words, which frequencies are amplified, and which are dampened. You can simulate some of the vowels by starting with a sine wave, zooming deeply in the amplitude FFT display and adding more frequencies, giving the spectrum a smooth shape.  Depending on where you put the maxima in the spectrum, you'll obtain an "o", or an "a".  The other vowels are difficult to obtain, but with a little pain you can create them!   Of course, the resulting sound is far from being similar to real voice, partly because of the lack of vibrato and jitter, partly because of the lack of additive noise.  You can add vibrato by clicking on "More Controls".
}
