{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11760
\paperh7800
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\qc\fs24\fc0\cf0 Phase\

\b0\ql \
If you decompose a waveform into a sum of pure sinusoids (assuming you're using the Fourier transform), you get two sets of data: The first one is the set of the sinusoids' amplitudes, the second one is the set of the sinusoids' phase. The second set is displayed in the 
\i phase
\i0  display in the FFT box. The horizontal axis is frequency, the vertical axis is phase (between -pi and pi.)  If you're not familiar with the idea of phase, click the sine wave button to get a pure sinusoid.  The waveform is composed of only one frequency component at the very left end of the spectrum.  You can change its phase by drawing a different value in the very left end of the phase display.  You'll see that changing the phase seems equivalent to shifting the waveform right or left, which is true for a pure sine wave. \
\
Most specialists agree that our ear is not very sensitive to the respective phases of the waveform's components–their respective amplitudes are much more important.  To see if this is true, you can pick a complex waveform (e.g. a square waveform) and alter the phase distribution in the phase display.  The shape of the waveform is altered too, but the timbre of the corresponding sound remains the same (the loudness can change, though.)  It may surprise you that two sounds with quite different time shapes can actually be perceptually quite similar.  Our ear seems to reject almost all the phase information (except for the phase difference between the sounds reaching our two ears, which is used for determining the space location of the source.)   Of course, we are speaking here of steady-state sounds.  When sounds are changing quickly, phase can be significant.  \
\

}
