{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11760
\paperh7800
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\qc\fs24\fc0\cf0 Adjusting the Pitch
\b0 \

\ql \

\b Experiment: Doubling the Pitch\

\b0 The rate of repetition of the period in time corresponds to the perceived sound's pitch.  If the waveform in the display is composed of successive similar patterns, you hear a higher pitch than the original one: Start with a triangular waveform, then redraw it to get two identical triangles next to each other. If your drawing is precise, you wont hear the same pitch as the original triangular waveform, but rather one octave above.  Click 
\i undo
\i0  in the memory box to compare the two waveforms and their corresponding pitch. Observe the two different spectrums: The doubled triangular waveform contains only one every other frequency.  Its pitch has been doubled.  Now if you alter one of the two triangles, the resulting sound will get its original low pitch back, because the period of the waveform is no longer half of the window as it was previously, but is the total length of the window.\
\

\b What is Pitch?\

\b0 The pitch of a sound is difficult to define, since it is mainly a psychological feature.  However, for periodic sounds (like the ones we're dealing with), it is closely related to the period of the waveform, or to the intervals between the frequency components.  Taking a saw-tooth waveform, try erasing every other sinusoidal component (on the FFT amplitude display) starting with the first one and going up to the highest frequencies.  The resulting sound will have a pitch an octave higher than the original one.  If you keep only one component out of three, the pitch will be an octave and a fifth higher.  You can also erase the first few low frequency components and check that the pitch remains the same, although a little less well defined.  This is due to the 
\i missing fundamental 
\i0 phenomenon.\
\
You can use the Pitch slider to vary the global pitch of the sound.  The slider controls the rate of repetition of the period over time.
}
