{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11760
\paperh7800
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\qc\fs24\fc0\cf0 What is a waveform, what is a spectrum? \

\b0\ql \
\

{{\NeXTHelpMarker43 \markername WHAT IS A WAVEFORM;}
¨}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 What is a Waveform?
\b0 \
When you hear a sound, what you actually perceive is the time variation of the air pressure near your ear-drum. This variation was initially created by the acoustic source (the movement of a loudspeaker's membrane for example) and propagated in the air to your ears, just like a ripple on a lake.  You can display this variation in a graphic showing the air pressure versus time.  This is what a waveform is, and this is what you see in the waveform display box. The acoustic pressure time variations that we use here are a bit special: they are 
\i periodic
\i0 , which means they repeat themselves after a constant time called the 
\i period
\i0 .  The waveform display actually shows only one period of the waveform: what you really hear is the constant repetition of this period in time. \
\
The human ear is sensitive to the 
\i variation
\i0  of the pressure in time.  You can draw a constant waveform in the waveform display and check that the resulting sound is inaudible, no matter what the constant level is.  On the contrary, if you draw a "bumpy" waveform, the resulting sound will be louder. The higher the bumps, the louder the sound.\
\

{\b{\NeXTHelpMarker1185 \markername WHAT IS A SPECTRUM;}
¨}\pard\tx520\tx1060\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs24\fc0\cf0 What is a Spectrum?\

\b0 Every sound can be described by its frequency content, which may change over time.  We do that all the time, when we say that a sound is bright, mellow or dull...  More precisely, a periodic waveform, like the ones we're using, can be described as the sum of a finite number of sinusoids (similar to the sine waveform) with different frequencies and different amplitudes. The spectrum is the set of the sinusoids that the waveform is composed of.  The FFT display (FFT stands for Fast Fourier Transform–a method for obtaining the spectrum) shows the different freqencies and their respective amplitude.  The horizontal axis is frequency, the vertical axis is amplitude. \
\
Select a sinusoidal waveform by clicking the 
\i sine
\i0  button.  Now zoom in the spectrum display using the 
\i zoom-in
\i0  button in the FFT display box.  You can check that the sinewave's spectrum contains only one sinusoid, since the original waveform is a sinusoid itself.  Click 
\i square
\i0  and observe its more complex spectrum.  The square waveform contains many high frequency components (seen on the right part of the spectrum) which give it its brigthness.  The linear/log button makes it possible to switch from linear to logarithmic amplitude display.  Logarithmic display is often preferred because our perception works on a logarithmic scale.
}
