{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f2\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw16220
\paperh13060
\margl120
\margr0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\ql\fs24\fi0\li0\gray0\fc0\cf0\up0\dn0 Release 4.0  Copyright 
\f1 ã
\f0 1993 by Stanford University.  All Rights Reserved.\
\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\fs28 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\li1100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\
\

\fs36 Simp
\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
INHERITS FROM	SynthPatch\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	musickit/synthpatches/synthpatches.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b\fs28\li2620\fc1\cf1 Simp
\b0  is a single-oscillator wavetable SynthPatch, capable of producing any periodic waveform.   It is the simplest of the Music Kit SynthPatches.    It uses a non-interpolating oscillator, which means it is not particularly high quality.   \
\
For most musical applications, it is preferable to use 
\b Wave1
\b0  or 
\b Wave1i
\b0 , both of which feature amplitude and frequency envelopes.\
\

\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc1\cf1 When using this SynthPatch in an interactive real-time context, such as playing from a MIDI keyboard, call 
\b MKUseRealTimeEnvelopes()
\b0  before allocating the SynthPatch.\

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
INSTANCE VARIABLES\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\i\fs28\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 Inherited from Object
\i0 	Class	isa;\

\fs16 \

\i\fs28 Inherited from SynthPatch
\i0 	id	synthElements;\

\pard\tx10180\tx10680\fi-520\li7660\fc0\cf0 id	synthInstrument;\
int	noteTag;\
MKSynthStatus	status;\
id	patchTemplate;\
BOOL	isAllocated;\
id	orchestra;\

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\i\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 Declared in Simp
\i0 	WaveTable *	waveform\
	double 	amp\
	double 	freq\
	double 	bearing\
	double	phase\
	double 	velocitySensitivity\
	double 	pitchbendSensitivity\
	int 	velocity\
	int 	pitchbend\
	int 	volume\
	int 	wavelen\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 METHOD TYPES\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 	
\fs28 + patchTemplateFor:\

\f1 	- 
\f0 freeSelf\

\f1 	- 
\f0 controllerValues:	\

\fs16 	
\f1\fs28 - 
\f0 noteOnSelf:
\fs16 \

\fs28 	
\f1 - 
\f0 noteOffSelf:
\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\fs28\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 	
\f1 - 
\f0 noteUpdateSelf:
\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\fs28\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 	
\f1 - 
\f0 noteEndSelf	\

\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 CLASS METHODS\
\

\b patchTemplateFor:\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\f1\fs28 + 
\f0\b patchTemplateFor:
\b0\i aNote\

\fs16 \

\i0\fs28 Returns a default template. 
\i aNote 
\i0 is ignored.\

\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\b0\fs28 \
INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b \

\fs28 noteOnSelf:\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\f1\fs28 - 
\f0\b noteOnSelf:
\b0\i aNote\

\fs16 \

\fs28 aNote 
\i0 is assumed to be a noteOn or noteDur.  If this is a new phrase, all instance variables are set to default values, then the values are read from the Note.  \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 noteUpdateSelf:\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\f1\fs28 - 
\f0\b noteUpdateSelf:
\b0\i aNote\

\fs16 \

\fs28 aNote 
\i0 is assumed to be a noteUpdate and the receiver is assumed to be currently playing a Note.  Sets parameters as specified in 
\i aNote.
\i0 \

\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 noteOffSelf:\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\f1\fs28 - (
\f0\fc1\cf1 double
\f1\fc0\cf0 )
\f0\b noteOffSelf:
\b0\i aNote\

\fs16 \

\fs28 aNote 
\i0 is assumed to be a noteOff.  Finishes the note immediately.
\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \
noteEndSelf\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs16\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\f1\fs28 - 
\f0\b noteEndSelf
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\i0\fs28 Resest instance variables to default values.
\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 \

\b0 PARAMETER INTERPRETATION\
\

\b\fc1\cf1 amp
\b0  - Amplitude.  In the range 0.0:1.0.  amp1 is a synonym for amp.  Default is 0.1.\
\

\b bearing
\b0  - Left/right panning of signal.  In range -45.0:45.0.  -45.0 is far left.  Default is 0.0.\
\

\b controlChange
\b0  - This parameter is the MIDI controller number to be affected.  It is used in conjunction with the parameter controlVal, which provides the value the controller is set to.  This SynthPatch uses MIDI volume (controller 7) to adjust output volume as an attenuation of the final output signal.  The default for MIDI volume is 127.\
\

\b controlVal
\b0  - See controlChange.\
\

\b freq
\b0  - Frequency in Hz.  freq1 is a synonym for freq.  Default is A440.\
\

\b keyNum
\b0  - The MIDI key number, an alternative to freq.  If both freq and keyNum are present, freq, takes precedence.  In the range 0:127.\
\

\b pitchBend
\b0  - Modifies frequency (or keyNum) as a 14 bit integer.  A value of MIDI_ZEROBEND (defined as 0x2000 in <mididriver/midi_spec.h>) gives no  bend.  0 is maximum negative bend.  0x3fff is maximum positive bend.  See TuningSystem class for details.  Default is MIDI_ZEROBEND.\
\

\b pitchBendSensitivity
\b0  - A value of 0.0 means pitchBend has no effect.  A value of 1.0 means pitch bend corresponds to plus or minus a semitone.  Larger values give larger pitch deviation.  Default is 3.0.\
\

\b waveform
\b0  - WaveTable used for the oscillator (only the carrier, in the case of FM).  Defaults to sine.  Note that the WaveTable you supply is normalized so that its peak amplitude is 1.0.\
\

\b waveLen
\b0  - Length of wavetable.  Defaults to an optimal value.  May only be set at the start of a phrase or with a noteUpdate that has no noteTag.\
\

\b phase
\b0  - Initial phase of wavetable in degrees.  Rarely needed.  Default is 0.0.\
\

\b velocity
\b0  - A MIDI parameter.  In range 0:127.  The default is 64.  Velocity scales amplitude by an amount deteremined by velocitySensitivity.  \
\

\b velocitySensitivity
\b0  - In range 0.0:1.0.  Default is 0.5.  When velocitySensitivity is 0, velocity has no effect.\
\

}
