{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f2\fnil Times-Roman;\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\paperw11760
\paperh7800
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx1140\tx2280\tx3420\tx4560\tx5700\tx6840\tx7980\f2\b0\i0\ulnone\qc\fs36\fc0\cf0 The NeXT Timbre Data Base
\fs24 \
\

\ql The NeXT Timbre Data Base is a set of spectra derived from recordings of musical instruments and voices in various ranges.  The Data Base was created by Michael McNabb.  \
\
The SynthPatches that support the Data Base are DBWave1vi, DBWave2vi, and DBFm1vi.  ("DB" stands for "Data Base".)  Note that the use of the Data Base is strictly optional in these instruments.  For example, if the Data Base is not used, DBWave1vi acts just like Wave1vi.  That is, the 
\b waveform
\b0  parameter may be passed either an ordinary WaveTable (as in Wave1vi) or a timbre string (as defined below).\
\
To use the Data Base, you specify a timbre as a string (such as "SA", including the quotation marks) to the SynthPatch's  
\b waveform
\b0  parameter.  SynthPatches with multiple 
\b waveform 
\b0 parameters accept multiple timbre strings.  Each timbre string represents a group of WaveTables, one for approximately every whole step in the normal range of the voice or instrument.  The SynthPatch selects the WaveTable appropriate to the frequency.  By default, the WaveTable selection is based on the parameter 
\b freq1
\b0  (synonym for 
\b freq
\b0 , or MIDI 
\b keynum
\b0 ).   By prefixing a timbre string with the zero character, e.g., "0SA", the timbre will be selected based on the 
\b freq0
\b0  parameter instead.\
\
The various timbre groups have different numbers of WaveTables, as given in the chart below.  Internally, the WaveTables for a particular timbre group are numbered sequentially, with 1 corresponding to the WaveTable for the bottom of the range of that timbre.  Specific WaveTables in a timbre group can be requested by adding a numeric suffix.  In this manner, the automatic selection based on frequencycan be overridden.  For example, the timbre group "BA" (bass voice singing "AH") consists of 15 timbres.  The timbre string "BA12" requests the 12th WaveTable, independent of the frequency.  \
\
Some of the timbres are actually recordings of the attack of an instrument.  These are best used with the SynthPatch DBWave2vi, which can interpolate between timbres.  Note also that for realism, appropriate envelopes, attack/decay values and vibrato must be used.\
\
Here are the string keywords for the timbres currently in the timbre database.  Note that case is significant.  The number in parentheses is the number of WaveTables for that timbre.  The normal range of the timbre corresponds to that of the corresponding instrument.  For example, "BA" is normally used from about c2 to about d4.\
\
    
\fs20  "BA"	Bass voice "AH" (15)\
     "BE"	Bass voice "EH" (14)\
     "BO"	Bass voice "OH" (15)\
     "BU"	Bass voice "OO" (15)\
     "TA"	Tenor voice "AH" (12)\
     "TE"	Tenor voice "EH"  (12)\
     "TI"	Tenor voice "EE" (12)\
     "TO"	Tenor voice "OH" (12)\
     "TU"	Tenor voice "OO" (12)\
     "SA"	Soprano voice "AH" (13)\
     "SE"	Soprano voice "EH" (13)\
     "SI"	Soprano voice "EE" (13) \
     "SO"	Soprano voice "OH" (13)\
     "SU"	Soprano voice "OO" (13)\
     "VCA"	Cello attack (53)\
     "VCS"	Cello steady-state (53)\
     "VNA"	Violin attack (56)\
     "VNS"	Violin steady-state (56) \
     "TR"	Trumpet (31)\
     "BN"	Bassoon (41)\
     "AS"	Alto Sax (31)\
     "SS"	Soprano Sax (31) \
     "BC"	Bass Clarinet (47)\
     "CL"	Clarinet (45)\
     "EH"	English Horn (32)\
     "OB"	Oboe (33)\
     "PN"	Piano (62)\
     "TW"	Triangle wave (31)\
     "SW"	Sawtooth wave (35)\
     "IW"	Impulse wave (29)\
\

\qc\fs36 Adding Your Own Timbres
\ql\fs24 \
The Music Kit allows you to add your own timbres.  This can only be done from an Objective-C program–it can not be done in a ScoreFile.  See the 
\b Timbre
\b0  class for details.\

}
