{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f2\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw11400
\paperh11040
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3780\tx4320\tx6480\f0\b\i\ulnone\qc\fs28\fc0\cf0 Ensemble\

\b0\i0\ql \

\i Ensemble
\i0  is a music application.  It is interactive and primarily MIDI-oriented, in contrast with 
\i Scoreplayer
\i0 , which is  non-interactive (except for tempo), and Music Kit Scorefile-oriented.  
\i Ensemble
\i0  supports NeXTstep Help.   For detailed documentation, launch 
\i Ensemble
\i0  and select 
\b Help?
\b0  from the menu.\
\

\i Ensemble
\i0  is a multi-faceted program which can serve several functions:\
\
 	
\i Music Synthesizer
\i0    	Synthesize notes on the DSP under control of  MIDI keyboard\
	
\i Midi Sequencer
\i0 		Basic 8-track MIDI recording and playback.\
	
\i Sound File Mixer
\i0 		Real-time multi-track sound file mixing and sequencing.\
	
\i Signal Processor		
\i0 Process sounds in real time throught the DSP\
	
\i Scorefile Orchestrator	
\i0 Orchestrate a MIDI file or Scorefile, and save the results\
						as a Scorefile, a Sound file, or a DSPCommands file.\
	
\i Live Performance
\i0 		Process MIDI input in real time in complex ways during\
						live performances.\
	
\i Algorithmic Composition	
\i0 Create automatic and/or interactive compositions by using \
						fractal  melody generators and other algorithms.\
	
\i Custom applications
\i0 	
\i Ensemble
\i0  is a Music Kit programming example.  Sources are \
					included in the CCRMA Music Kit release.					\

\i Ensemble 
\i0 is a document-oriented application.  An 
\i Ensemble
\i0  document represents a particular configuration of MIDI,  DSP and/or sound file resources.  The user interface consists primarily of the performance control panel, the main heirarchical menu, and one or more document windows. \
\
To get started, try opening one of the example documents from /
\b LocalLibrary/Music/Ensemble/.
\b0    Some of these are algorithmic documents, others play back MIDI sequences.  
}
