{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw12240
\paperh13540
\margl1800
\margr1800
\pard\tx1140\tx2280\tx3420\tx4560\tx5700\tx6840\tx7980\f0\b0\i\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0 Appendix A–DSP Music Synthesis Benchmarks\

\i0 \
These benchmarks are provided to indicate how much music synthesis computation a DSP can do in real time, using the software provided by the Music Kit.   
\i These tests were done with a 25 MHz  DSP with 8K words of 0-wait state DSP SRAM.  
\i0 Note that Intel-based DSP cards have faster DSPs and more DSP SRAM, allowing for more voices.  However, some Intel-based DSP cards, such as the Turtle Beach Multisound, use slower DSP SRAM, which will negatively impact the number of possible voices.\
\
The benchmarks are in the following format:\
\

\b\i Name–
\b0 description: I1 / I2\

\i0 \

\b\i Name
\i0  
\b0 is the name of a synthesis instrument in the Music Kit SynthPatch Library.  
\i Description
\i0  describes the synthesis instrument briefly.  
\i I1 
\i0 is the number of instances of the instrument that can play in real time at a sound-out sampling rate of 22050 Hz.  
\i I2
\i0  is the number of instances that can play at a sampling rate of 44100 Hz.\
\
Note that the Music Kit SynthPatch Library supports a number of instruments that are not represented here.  It also supports polyphonic instruments, and the constitution of the orchestra can be changed between samples (via timed messages) during a performance.\

\i \
\
\
Plucked String Synthesis
\b\i0 \

\b0 \

\b Pluck
\b0 –with fine tuning allpass, sustain filter, and stereo panning:  14 / 7\
\

\i \
\
Wave Table Synthesis\

\i0 \

\b Wave1
\b0 –amplitude and frequency envelopes, stereo panning, and non-interpolating drop-sample oscillator:  22 / 12\
\

\b Wave1i
\b0 –same as Wave1, but with interpolating high-quality oscillator:  16 / 8 \
\

\b Wave1vi–
\b0 same as Wave1i, but with the addition of random and periodic vibrato:  10 / 5\
\

\i \
\
Frequency Modulation Synthesis\

\i0 \

\b Fm1–
\b0 arbitrary carrier and modulator wavetables, amplitude, frequency and FM index envelopes, stereo panning, and non-interpolating oscillator:  13 / 8 \
\

\b Fm1i–
\b0 same as Fm1, but with interpolating oscillator for carrier:  11 / 6 \
\

\b Fm1pnvi–
\b0 same as Fm1i, with the addition of random and periodic vibrato, another modulator with its own index envelope, noise modulating the frequency of the two modulators, and an envelope on the noise:  5 / 3 \
\
\
\

\b Benchmark Details\

\b0\i \

\i0 The DSP sine ROM is used as the wavetable for all oscillators above.  All vibrato is done on the DSP.  The amount of synthesis that can be done in real time also depends on how rapidly wave tables are changing and other details of musical context.  Changing the constitution of the orchestra during a performance can lead to somewhat smaller numbers due to DSP memory fragmentation.\

}
