{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\paperw10920\paperh8400
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 ResoLab\
\
by Perry R. Cook\
\
Stanford Center for Computer Research in Music and Acoustics\
\
This is the same document you get if you run ResoLab and ask for the help panel.\
\
To hear the instrument, press the "DSP Synthesis" button.   All controls affect the DSP instrument in real-time, so you can hear the effects.\
\
                            Source Controller Window\
\
There are two possible sound sources: white noise and a sum-of-cosines pulse wave.  The individual volume sliders and the cross fader control the level and mix of these sources.  The pulse source is pitched, and three controls affect the pitch.  Typing numbers into the "Pulse Pitch" field changes the average pitch.  The "Per." slider controls the amount of periodic vibrato, and "Freq." controls the frequency of the periodic vibrato.  The "Rnd." slider controls the amount of random pitch deviation.  The "# Harmonics" field specifies how many cosines (harmonics) make up the pulse.  To avoid aliasing, the number in this field multiplied by the number in the "Pulse Pitch" field should not exceed 10000.  The "# Harmonics" x "Pulse Pitch" product should be higher than the highest center frequency in the filter fields (described below) so that all of the effects of the filter can be heard.\
\
			     Filter Editor Window\
\
The source is processed by a 6 pole, 6 zero filter.  The numeric controls for these are in the "Poles" and "Zeroes" fields near the bottom of the window.  There are three controllable resonances (pole pairs) and anti-resonances (zero pairs).  Poles correspond to peaks (like flag poles), and zeroes correspond to valleys.  The "Center" field controls the center frequency in Hz., and the "Reson." field controls the sharpness of the filter (0=no effect, 1.0=very sharp).  \
\
The "Log Magnitude Spectrum" view shows the frequency response of the filter.  Either log or linear frequency scales are available by pressing the "Linear"/"Log" button.  The "Unlink"/"Link" switch disables and enables the spectrum view.  For faster and smoother control of the DSP chip, disable this view.  "But Perry", you ask, "how do I smoothly control the instrument?"  Read on.\
\
The "ZPlaneView" displays the locations of the poles and zeroes on the complex frequency plane.  For those of you who have no idea what that means, don't freak out yet.  The \
x-es are poles and the o-s are zeroes, and a few simple rules will let you use this display to control the instrument with the mouse.  You can pick up a pole or zero by pressing the left mouse button on it.  It can then be dragged around on the ZPlane to smoothly control the filter settings.  The anglular location of a pole or zero determines the center frequency, like the "Center" text fields.  The distance from the center of the plane determines the resonance, like "Reson.".  Poles can not be moved further than a resonance of 1.0, because the filter becomes unstable at this point, and would blow up, consume infinite energy, cause oil spills, etc.  The polar axis (direction right from center, or East if the ZPlane were a map) is zero frequency, and frequency increases counter-clockwise from there to 5000 Hz. at 90 degrees (North), and 10000 Hz. at 180 degrees (West).  If you proceed past West, you'll notice you've picked up the companion pole (or zero), and the center frequency starts moving down rather than up.  I'll offer no more in the way of explanation of the ZPlane, except for the next paragraph.\
\
The SpectrumView is the gain of the filter only on the unit circle (resonance = 1.0).  The 3DZPlaneView displays the gain of the filter all over the entire ZPlane.  This essentially expresses how the filter treats inputs at different frequencies that grow or decay in volume.  The "Graph It 3D" button causes the 3DZPlaneView to calculate and graph itself.  This takes a while, but is well worth it to those of us who like this sort of thing.  The "Gain" slider scales the graph.\
\
Finally, the buttons at the bottom of the Filter Editor Window allow you to set the filter into configurations matching common male vowels.  Try depressing these with the pulse source and a little vibrato, you'll hear singing.  Try it with the noise source, you'll hear whispering.\
\
Have fun, and if you want to learn more, consult your library for books about Digital Signal Processing, Speech Analysis, and Speech Synthesis. \
}
